docs/rendering.md, before:

# Rendering

Rendering is performed using the `DebugBar\JavascriptRenderer̀ class. It contains
all the useful functions to included the needed assets and generate a debug bar.

    $renderer = $debugbar->getJavascriptRenderer();

## Assets

The debug bar relies on some css and javascript files which needs to be included
into your webpage. They are located in the *src/DebugBar/Resources* folder.
This can be done in four ways:

 - Using `JavascriptRenderer::renderHead()` which will returns a string with
   the needed script and link tags
 - Using [Assetic](https://github.com/kriswallsmith/assetic) and
   `JavascriptRenderer::getAsseticCollection()`
 - Dumping the assets yourself using `JavascriptRenderer::dumpCssAssets()` and
   `JavascriptRenderer::dumpJsAssets()`
 - Retrieving the list filenames of assets using `JavascriptRenderer::getAssets()`
   and doing something with it

I would recommend using the second method as Assetic is a very powerful asset
manager but the other methods are provided to quickly integrate the debug bar
into any projects.

You can define the base url of your assets using `setBaseUrl()`. This is needed
in 99% of cases.

Using `renderHead()`:

    <html>
        <head>
            ...
            <?php echo $renderer->renderHead() ?>
            ...
        </head>
        ...
    </html>

Using Assetic:

    list($cssCollection, $jsCollection) = $renderer->getAsseticCollection();

Dumping the assets:

    header('Content-Type', 'text/javascript');
    $renderer->dumpJsAssets();

Retrieving the assets:

    list($cssFiles, $jsFiles) = $renderer->getAssets();

Note that you can only use the debug bar assets and manage the dependencies by yourself
using `$renderer->setIncludeVendors(false)`. Instead of false, *css* or *js* may be used
to only include css or js assets of vendors.

## Managing jQuery conflicts

When the debug bar script is included, it will be bound to the current jQuery object.
The default action is to call `jQuery.noConflict(true)` after this is done.

This has two implications:

 - jQuery won't be available anymore if you didn't include your own version
   before including the debug bar's vendors
 - your own version will be restored.

If you use `JavascriptRenderer::setIncludeVendors()` to disable the inclusion of js
vendors (ie. jquery), `jQuery.noConflict(true)` won't be called.

You can manage whether `jQuery.noConflict(true)` should be called or not using
`JavascriptRenderer::setEnableJqueryNoConflict()`.

## The javascript object

The renderer will generate all the needed code for your debug bar. This means
initializing the DebugBar js object, adding tabs and indicators, defining a data map, etc...

Data collectors can provide their own controls when implementing the
`DebugBar\DataCollector\Renderable` interface as explained in the Collecting Data chapter.

Thus in almost all cases, you should only have to use `render()` right away:

    <html>
        ...
        <body>
            <?php echo $renderer->render() ?>
        </body>
    </html>

This will print the initialization code for the toolbar and the dataset for the request.
When you are performing AJAX requests, you do not want to initialize a new toolbar but
add the dataset to the existing one. You can disable initialization using ̀false` as
the first argument of ̀render()`.

    <p>my ajax content</p>
    <?php echo $renderer->render(false) ?>

### Controlling object initialization

You can further control the initialization of the javascript object using `setInitialization()`.
It takes a bitwise value made out of the constants ̀INITIALIZE_CONSTRUCTOR` and `INITIALIZE_CONTROLS`.
The first one controls whether to initialize the variable (ie. `var debugbar = new DebugBar()`). The
second one whether to initialize all the controls (ie. adding tab and indicators as well as data mapping).

You can also control the class name of the object using `setJavascriptClass()` and the name of
the instance variable using `setVariableName()`.

Let's say you have subclassed `PhpDebugBar.DebugBar` in javascript to do your own initialization.
Your new object is called `MyDebugBar`.

    $renderer->setJavascriptClass("MyDebugBar");
    $renderer->setInitialization(JavascriptRenderer::INITIALIZE_CONSTRUCTOR);
    // ...
    echo $renderer->render();

This has the result of printing:

    <script type="text/javascript">
    var phpdebugbar = new MyDebugBar();
    phpdebugbar.addDataSet({ ... });
    </script>

Using `setInitialization(0)` will only render the addDataSet part.

### Defining controls

Controls can be manually added to the debug bar using `addControl($name, $options)`. You should read
the Javascript bar chapter before this section.

`$name` will be the name of your control and `$options` is a key/value pair array with these
possible values:

- *icon*: icon name
- *tooltip*: string
- *widget*: widget class name
- *map*: a property name from the data to map the control to
- *default*: a js string, default value of the data map
- *tab*: class name of the tab object (to use a custom tab object)
- *indicator*: class name of the indicator object (to use a custom indicator object)
- *position*: position of the indicator ('left' of 'right', default to 'right')

At least *icon* or *widget* are needed (unless *tab* or *indicator* are specified). If *widget* is
specified, a tab will be created, otherwise an indicator. Any other options is also passed to the tab
or indicator.

    $renderer->addControl('messages', array(
        "widget" => "PhpDebugBar.Widgets.MessagesWidget",
        "map" => "messages",
        "default" => "[]"
    ));

You can disable a control using `disableControl($name)` and ignore any controls provided by
a collector using `ignoreCollector($name)`.

Commit message:

Enable AssetProvider to support inline assets (#338)
Add new inline_css, inline_js, and inline_head keys on the
AssetProvider::getAssets() function.  This allows us to support
collectors that require static assets that are not actually saved to a
file.

Then, update all the asset functions in JavascriptRenderer to support
these new keys.

An initial use case for this is supporting the HtmlDumper in Symfony’s
VarDumper.  HtmlDumper only provides the styles and scripts in inline
HTML form.  The static assets can be customized based on some
configuration properties available on the HtmlDumper class.  One can
actually view the CSS/JS as a long PHP string/heredoc embedded in the
HtmlDumper.php source code.  They are only accessible via the
getDumpHeader function, which returns the CSS/JS in a combined HTML
string.

docs/rendering.md, after:

# Rendering

Rendering is performed using the `DebugBar\JavascriptRenderer` class. It contains
all the useful functions to included the needed assets and generate a debug bar.

    $renderer = $debugbar->getJavascriptRenderer();

## Assets

The debug bar relies on some css and javascript files which needs to be included
into your webpage. They are located in the *src/DebugBar/Resources* folder.
Additionally, asset providers may provide inline assets that have to be embedded
directly in the HTML.  This can be done in four ways:

 - Using `JavascriptRenderer::renderHead()` which will returns a string with
   the needed script and link tags
 - Using [Assetic](https://github.com/kriswallsmith/assetic) and
   `JavascriptRenderer::getAsseticCollection()`
 - Dumping the assets yourself using `JavascriptRenderer::dumpCssAssets()`,
   `JavascriptRenderer::dumpJsAssets()`, and `JavascriptRenderer::dumpHeadAssets()`.
 - Retrieving filenames and inline content of assets using `JavascriptRenderer::getAssets()`
   and doing something with it

I would recommend using the second method as Assetic is a very powerful asset
manager but the other methods are provided to quickly integrate the debug bar
into any projects.

You can define the base url of your assets using `setBaseUrl()`. This is needed
in 99% of cases.

Using `renderHead()`:

    <html>
        <head>
            ...
            <?php echo $renderer->renderHead() ?>
            ...
        </head>
        ...
    </html>

Using Assetic:

    list($cssCollection, $jsCollection, $inlineHeadCollection) = $renderer->getAsseticCollection();

Dumping the assets:

    header('Content-Type', 'text/javascript');
    $renderer->dumpJsAssets();

Retrieving the assets:

    list($cssFiles, $jsFiles, $inlineCss, $inlineJs, $inlineHead) = $renderer->getAssets();

Note that you can only use the debug bar assets and manage the dependencies by yourself
using `$renderer->setIncludeVendors(false)`. Instead of false, *css* or *js* may be used
to only include css or js assets of vendors.

## Managing jQuery conflicts

When the debug bar script is included, it will be bound to the current jQuery object.
The default action is to call `jQuery.noConflict(true)` after this is done.

This has two implications:

 - jQuery won't be available anymore if you didn't include your own version
   before including the debug bar's vendors
 - your own version will be restored.

If you use `JavascriptRenderer::setIncludeVendors()` to disable the inclusion of js
vendors (ie. jquery), `jQuery.noConflict(true)` won't be called.

You can manage whether `jQuery.noConflict(true)` should be called or not using
`JavascriptRenderer::setEnableJqueryNoConflict()`.

## The javascript object

The renderer will generate all the needed code for your debug bar. This means
initializing the DebugBar js object, adding tabs and indicators, defining a data map, etc...

Data collectors can provide their own controls when implementing the
`DebugBar\DataCollector\Renderable` interface as explained in the Collecting Data chapter.

Thus in almost all cases, you should only have to use `render()` right away:

    <html>
        ...
        <body>
            <?php echo $renderer->render() ?>
        </body>
    </html>

This will print the initialization code for the toolbar and the dataset for the request.
When you are performing AJAX requests, you do not want to initialize a new toolbar but
add the dataset to the existing one. You can disable initialization using ̀false` as
the first argument of ̀render()`.

    <p>my ajax content</p>
    <?php echo $renderer->render(false) ?>

### Controlling object initialization

You can further control the initialization of the javascript object using `setInitialization()`.
It takes a bitwise value made out of the constants `INITIALIZE_CONSTRUCTOR` and `INITIALIZE_CONTROLS`.
The first one controls whether to initialize the variable (ie. `var debugbar = new DebugBar()`). The
second one whether to initialize all the controls (ie. adding tab and indicators as well as data mapping).

You can also control the class name of the object using `setJavascriptClass()` and the name of
the instance variable using `setVariableName()`.

Let's say you have subclassed `PhpDebugBar.DebugBar` in javascript to do your own initialization.
Your new object is called `MyDebugBar`.

    $renderer->setJavascriptClass("MyDebugBar");
    $renderer->setInitialization(JavascriptRenderer::INITIALIZE_CONSTRUCTOR);
    // ...
    echo $renderer->render();

This has the result of printing:

    <script type="text/javascript">
    var phpdebugbar = new MyDebugBar();
    phpdebugbar.addDataSet({ ... });
    </script>

Using `setInitialization(0)` will only render the addDataSet part.

### Defining controls

Controls can be manually added to the debug bar using `addControl($name, $options)`. You should read
the Javascript bar chapter before this section.

`$name` will be the name of your control and `$options` is a key/value pair array with these
possible values:

- *icon*: icon name
- *tooltip*: string
- *widget*: widget class name
- *map*: a property name from the data to map the control to
- *default*: a js string, default value of the data map
- *tab*: class name of the tab object (to use a custom tab object)
- *indicator*: class name of the indicator object (to use a custom indicator object)
- *position*: position of the indicator ('left' of 'right', default to 'right')

At least *icon* or *widget* are needed (unless *tab* or *indicator* are specified). If *widget* is
specified, a tab will be created, otherwise an indicator. Any other options is also passed to the tab
or indicator.

    $renderer->addControl('messages', array(
        "widget" => "PhpDebugBar.Widgets.MessagesWidget",
        "map" => "messages",
        "default" => "[]"
    ));

You can disable a control using `disableControl($name)` and ignore any controls provided by
a collector using `ignoreCollector($name)`.
